---
layout: post
title: v3.0 Released
---

h3. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 6 Apr 2014

Just published version 3.0. First thought - what's the difference between 3.1 and 4.0? We have this same debate at work and it seems like there's no real solid answer. I think if my next stopping point only includes some bug fixes and refactoring, then it's 3.1. If it's got a bunch of big new features and (yet another) UI change, then I'll call it 4.0.

Anyways, version 3.0 has the following new features:

* Improved UI layout
* Added ring and club prop types
* Added reverse cascade and shower hand movements
* Added a "siteswap explorer" that generates vanilla siteswap patterns based on some user inputs
* Added a save feature using the browser's local storage, so the data wont' persist across browsers and/or machines

I think the next stopping point is going to be a version 3.1 with a bunch of refactoring and bug fixes. There's still that synchronous siteswap "halving" issue and the siteswap explorer doesn't support non-numeric characters. It also kind of gives the user a smoking gun to choke their browser if they generate siteswaps for 8+ beats and max throw height. The help functionality is really lacking, and I think that's because I'm still not sure who the target audience is for this software. If you know your siteswaps and have used something like juggling lab before, then I think this all should be fairly intuitive. If you don't know siteswaps then chances are you're really not interested in this app anyway, so perhaps I don't even try to help that kind of user?

The code is really starting to look like spaghetti. I guess that's the downside to constantly experimenting with different ideas, and not thinking of how the whole thing fits together. I think before I start working on big features for v4.0 (things like customized dwell paths, number of prop rotations in flight, defining where each juggler is in passing patterns) I need to take a step back and re-assess the whole design.

And testing...that didn't last long... I do like the Qunit tests for the siteswap validation component. I think there's some real value to be had there, and I should make sure I spend some time getting that back up to speed. I don't think there's really any sense in automated testing for any of the animation stuff, I'm not even sure how that would work.

Lots of cool stuff here, I'm really pleased with how far this has come since I decided to take the release process more serious. Each release has had its flaws, but actually drawing a line in the sand and saying "this is version 3" feels good.